SOCIAL ENGINEERING
Social engineering takes advantage of one of the weakest links in any organization’s information security defenses: people. Social engineering is people hacking; it involves maliciously exploiting the trusting nature of human beings to obtain information that can be used for personal gain.
Social engineering is different from physical security exploits, such as shoulder surfing and dumpster diving, but the two types of hacking are related and often are used in tandem.
Social engineers know that many organizations don’t have formal data classification programs, access control systems, incident response plans, or security awareness programs, and they take advantage of these weaknesses.
Social engineers often do a favor for someone and then turn around and ask that person whether he or she minds helping them. This common social engineering trick works pretty well. 
Social engineers also use what’s called reverse social engineering. They offer to help if a specific problem arises. After some time passes, the problem occurs (often at the social engineer’s doing), and then the social engineer helps fix the problem. They may come across as heroes, which can further their cause. Social engineers may ask an unsuspecting employee for a favor.
Deceit through technology: Often, a malicious request for information comes from a computer or other electronic entity that the victims think they can identify. But spoofing a computer name, an email address, a fax number, or a network address is easy. 
In some well-publicized incidents, hackers emailed their victims a patch purporting to come from Microsoft or another well-known vendor. Users may think that the message looks like a duck and quacks like a duck — but it’s not the right duck! The message is actually from a hacker who wants the user to install the patch, which installs a Trojan-horse keylogger or creates a backdoor into computers and networks. Hackers use these backdoors to hack into the organization’s systems or use the victims’ computers (known as zombies) as launchpads to attack another system. 
Even viruses and worms can use social engineering. The LoveBug worm, for example, told users they had secret admirers. When the victims opened the email, it was too late. Their computers were infected.
Many computerized social engineering tactics can be performed anonymously through Internet proxy servers, anonymizers, remailers, and basic SMTP servers that have an open relay. When people fall for requests for confidential personal or corporate information, the sources of these social engineering attacks are often impossible to track.
Dumpster diving method involves rummaging through trash cans for information about a company. Airplanes are great places for shoulder surfing and gathering sensitive information.
Commercial options available on the Internet include LUCY (https://www.lucysecurity.com) and Cofense, formerly known as Phishme (https://cofense.com). With these email phishing platforms, you have access to pre-installed email templates, the ability to scrape (copy pages from) live websites so you can customize your own campaign, and various reporting capabilities so you can track which email users are taking the bait on.
LUCY phishing campaigns can launch various samples, including malware simulation and SMS phishing (smishing).
Never let a stranger connect to one of your network jacks or internal wireless networks, even for a few seconds. Someone with ill intent can place a network analyzer or install malware, or set up a backdoor that can be accessed remotely when they leave.
